Debian 

Desktop Environment
  The GNOME project provides two things: The GNOME desktop environment, an intuitive and attractive desktop for users, and the GNOME development platform, an extensive framework for building applications that integrate into the rest of the desktop.

  KDE is a powerful open source graphical desktop environment for Unix workstations. It combines ease of use, contemporary functionality, and outstanding graphical design with the technological superiority of the Unix operating system.

  Xfce is a lightweight desktop environment for various *NIX systems. Designed for productivity, it loads and executes applications quickly, while conserving system resources.

  LXDE is designed to work well with computers on the low end of the performance spectrum such as older resource-constrained machines, new generation netbooks, and other small computers. 

* mate-desktop-environment-core (MATE Desktop Environment) 

Window Manager
  Openbox is a lightweight and highly configurable window manager with extensive standards support. It is well known for its minimalistic appearance.

  FluxBox is a windowmanager for X that was based on the Blackbox 0.61.1 code. It is very light on resources and easy to handle yet full of features to make an easy, and extremely fast, desktop experience.

  Compiz is a compositing window manager for the X Window System that uses 3D graphics hardware to create fast compositing desktop effects for window management.
	
  Wmii is a dynamic window manager for X11. It supports classic and tiling window management with extended keyboard, mouse, and filesystem-based remote control. It replaces the workspace paradigm with a new tagging approach.

  Awesome is a dynamic window manager for X11. It supports tiling window management with extended keyboard, mouse, and it is scriptable in Lua. It includes many add-ons which can make it very powerful. It replaces the workspace paradigm with a new tiling approach of non-overlaping windows.

* marco (lightweight GTK+ window manager for MATE)

X display managers
  gdm - Gnome Display Manager

  kdm - KDE Display Manager

* lightdm - desktop-independent customizable display manager
    https://wiki.debian.org/LightDM

  lxdm - LXDE display manager (currently in sid)

  slim - desktop-independent graphical login manager for X11

  wdm - WINGs Display Manager (using the WINGs widget-set used in Window Maker)

  xdm - Xorg's default display manager.

file manager
  Caja (file manager for the MATE desktop)
  Thunar (File Manager for Xfce)

Installed as of 30Mar2015
  Caja (file manager for the MATE desktop)
  Thunar (File Manager for Xfce)
  lightdm
  xfwm4
  xfdesktop4
  (Xfce4 Session Manager)
  mate-session-manager (Session manager of the MATE desktop environment)
  mate-desktop-environment-core (MATE Desktop Environment)
  marco (lightweight GTK+ window manager for MATE)

Not Installed as of 30Mar2015
  gdm
  kdm
  lxdm
  slim
  wdm
  xdm
  Openbox
  FluxBox
  Compiz
  Wmii
  Awesome


